WIP: introduce feature reference (#4)
elastic/universal-profiling-documentation: features.md

sections of your fleet by using KQL queries in the search bar. You can apply time-based filtering and fields filtering,
inspecting more narrow portion of data and diving deeper and deeper into your system CPU usage.

See [filtering](TODO) for more details on how to slice data.

#### Stacktraces

In the landing page you will see graphs of stacktraces grouped by containers, deployments, threads, hosts and
traces.

These grouping are derived from where the stacktraces were collected, you may find an empty view in containers and
deployments if your host-agent deployment is profiling systems that do not run any containers, or container
orchestrators.

In a deployment where Universal Profiling is correctly receiving data from host-agents you should _always_ see a graph
in the threads, hosts and traces view.

![stacktraces view](./img/stacktraces-default-view.png)

Here is summary of the type of grouping in each view:

* Containers: stacktraces grouped by container name discovered by the host-agent
* Deployments: stacktraces grouped by deployment name set by the container orchestration (e.g. Kubernetes `ReplicaSet`,
  `DaemonSet`, or `SatefulSet` name)

> * Threads: stacktraces grouped by process' command name (`/proc/<PID>/comm` in Linux)

Author: Ah thanks, I may have done confusion on this, AFAIR the `ThreadName` was mapped with `comm`. I'll remove the content in parenthesis and only leave `process' thread name`.

> * Threads: stacktraces grouped by process' command name (`/proc/<PID>/comm` in Linux)

Reviewer: It's confusing because both the process name and the thread name can be referred to with "comm". But the name retrieved from /proc/<PID>/comm is not the thread name (and not what we use ourselves). We get the thread name in the kernel by calling `bpf_get_current_comm` (which confusingly does not return the process name!).

For more context also see: https://groups.google.com/a/elastic.co/g/profiling-eng/c/mxFTZPIkZXM/m/gISIUBdbAQAJ

* Hosts: stacktraces grouped by machine's hostname or IP
* Traces: un-grouped stacktraces

You can hover and click each of the stacked barchart sections to show details.

You can arrange the graph to display absolute values, or relative percentage values.

Below the top graph, a list of smaller graphs show the individual trend-line for each of the items.

> The percentage displayed in the top-right corner of every smaller graphs is the _relative_ number of occurrences of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The percentage displayed in the top-right corner of every smaller graph is the _relative_ number of occurrences of
```

every time over the total of samples in the group.

The smaller graphs are ordered in decreasing order, from top to bottom, left to right.

**Do not confuse the displayed percentage with percentage of CPU usage**: Universal Profiler is not meant to show

> monitoring data, rather it allows to compare which software running in your infrastructure is the most expensive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
absolute monitoring data, rather it allows to compare which software running in your infrastructure is the most expensive.
```

In the "Traces" tab, clicking on "Show more" in each of the smaller graphs will bring up on the screen the full
stacktrace.

![stacktraces show more](./img/stacktraces-detailed-view.png)

_Note_: the stacktrace may be either symbolized, showing the full source code's filename and line number, or partially
symbolized, or not symbolized at all.

Notice how unsymbolized frames _do not_ show a filename and line number, but a hexadecimal number or `<unsymbolized>`.

![stacktraces unsymbolized](./img/stacktraces-unsymbolized-view.png)

Some possible use cases for the stacktraces view:

> * discover which container, deployed across on a multitude of machines, is the heaviest CPU hitter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* discover which container, deployed across a multitude of machines, is the heaviest CPU hitter
```

  frequently. This allows pinpointing functions or methods that _should_ be negligible, and are instead found to be a
  big portion of your call sites.

Drag the graph up, down, right or left to move the visible area.

You can zoom in and out of a subset of stacktraces, by clicking on individual frames or scrolling up in the colored view.

The summary square in the bottom-left corner of the graph lets you shift the visible area of the graph.
Note how the position of summary square is adjusted when you drag flamegraph, and vice-versa: moving the summary square
will reflect the visible area in the bigger panel.

Enabling the "Show information window" on the right will display a list of entries in a panel on the right.
Clicking on each rectangle in the flamegraph will highlight the frame's detail in the right panel.

![flamegraph frame details](./img/flamegraph-detailed-view.png)

#### Functions

### Filtering

### Resource constraints

One of the key goals of Universal Profiling is to have net positive cost benefit for users: the cost of profiling and
observing applications should not be higher than the savings produced by the optimizations.

> In this spirit, both the agent and the storage are engineered to be as efficient as possible in terms of resources

Author: I liked all other suggestions, but this one sounds weird... the fact that a backend exists is mostly irrelevant on this point?

> In this spirit, both the agent and the storage are engineered to be as efficient as possible in terms of resources

Reviewer: Yeah you are right, I thought it read a bit better. How about:

"both the agent and storage are engineered.."

effective remove "the" from "the storage" as it's not needed

<center><img src="https://elastic.github.io/universal-profiling-documentation/img/logo.png"  width="400" height="400"></center>

## Universal Profiling features

> Elastic Universal Profiling is a continuous profiling platform running on top of the Elastic stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Elastic Universal Profiling is a continuous profiler running on top of the Elastic stack.
```

Author: The reason why I used platform here is because we don't want to stop at profiling: our long term (as it was at Optimyze) it's also to provide PGO, carbon footprint detection, and many other features.
Though I agree that for the sake of this doc, we could say `continuous profiling tool`, WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Sure, that works fine for me. :)

For more details, see
the [Elastic Universal Profiling product page](https://www.elastic.co/observability/ebpf-continuous-code-profiling)

### Inspecting data in Kibana

When opening Kibana, find in the left menu the "Observability" section, and click on "Universal Profiling" to get
started. You are presented with the [stacktraces](#stacktraces) view.

Universal Profiling currently only supports CPU profiling (via stack sampling).

From the landing page, you can get an overview of the entirety of your data, and slice and dice into more detailed
sections of your fleet by using filtering queries in the search bar.
You can apply both time-based filters and property filters, inspecting more narrow portions of data and drilling down

> into how much various parts of your infrastructure consume CPU usage over time.

Reviewer 2: consume + usage felt redundant to me. How about this?

```suggestion
into how much various parts of your infrastructure consume CPU over time.
```

> See [filtering](TODO) for more details on how to slice data, and [differential views](TODO) to know how to compare

Reviewer 2: There is a section about filtering so I think we can now link to it?

```suggestion
See [filtering](#filtering) for more details on how to slice data, and [differential views](TODO) to understand how to compare
```

two time ranges to detect performance improvements or regressions.

#### Premise on debug symbols

Profiles' stacktrace may be either symbolized, showing the full source code's filename and line number, or partially
symbolized, or not symbolized at all.

> Notice how unsymbolized frames _do not_ show a filename and line number, but a hexadecimal number or `<unsymbolized>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice how unsymbolized frames _do not_ show a filename and line number, but a hexadecimal number such as `0x80d2f4` or `<unsymbolized>`.
```

Adding symbols for unsymbolized frames is a manual operation for now, see
[Adding symbols for native frames](./README.md#adding-symbols-for-native-frames).

![stacktraces unsymbolized](./img/stacktraces-unsymbolized-view.png)

#### Stacktraces

In the landing page you will see graphs of stacktraces grouped by containers, deployments, threads, hosts and
traces.

These groupings are derived from the origin of collected stacktraces. You may find an empty view in containers and
deployments if your host-agent deployment is profiling systems that do not run any containers, or container
orchestrators.

In a deployment where Universal Profiling is correctly receiving data from host-agents you should _always_ see a graph
in the threads, hosts and traces view.

![stacktraces view](./img/stacktraces-default-view.png)

Here is summary of the type of groupings in each view:

* Containers: stacktraces grouped by container name discovered by the host-agent
* Deployments: stacktraces grouped by deployment name set by the container orchestration (e.g. Kubernetes `ReplicaSet`,

>   `DaemonSet`, or `SatefulSet` name)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `DaemonSet`, or `StatefulSet` name)
```

* Threads: stacktraces grouped by process' thread name
* Hosts: stacktraces grouped by machine's hostname or IP
* Traces: un-grouped stacktraces

You can hover and click each of the stacked barchart sections to show details.

You can arrange the graph to display absolute values, or relative percentage values.

Below the top graph, a list of smaller graphs show the individual trend-line for each of the items.

The percentage displayed in the top-right corner of every smaller graph is the _relative_ number of occurrences of
every time over the total of samples in the group.

The smaller graphs are ordered in decreasing order, from top to bottom, left to right.

> **Do not confuse the displayed percentage with percentage of CPU usage**: Universal Profiler is not meant to show

Reviewer 2: Move this paragraph up as it relates to the one on line 66?

absolute monitoring data, rather it allows to compare which software running in your infrastructure is the most expensive.

In the "Traces" tab, clicking on "Show more" in each of the smaller graphs will show the full
stacktrace.

![stacktraces show more](./img/stacktraces-detailed-view.png)

Some possible use cases for the stacktraces view:

* discover which container, deployed across a multitude of machines, is the heaviest CPU hitter

> * discover how much relative overhead comes from third party software running on your machines

Reviewer 2: According to [MW](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/third-party), `third-party` is hyphenated when used as an adjective:

```suggestion
* discover how much relative overhead comes from third-party software running on your machines
```

* detect unexpected CPU spikes across threads, and drill down into a smaller time range to investigate further with a
  flamegraph

#### Flamegraphs

A flamegraph is a visualization technique that groups hierarchical data (stacktraces) into rectangles stacked onto

> or next to each other. The size of each rectangle represents the relative weight of a children compared to the parent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or next to each other. The size of each rectangle represents the relative weight of a child compared to the parent.
```

Flamegraphs provide immediate feedback on what parts of the software should be searched first for optimization
opportunities, highlighting the hottest code paths across your entire infrastructure.

![flamegraph view](./img/flamegraph-default-view.png)

You can navigate a flamegraph on two axes:

> * Horizontally: every process that is sampled will have at least a box under the `root`

Reviewer 2: Should we replace "box" with "rectangle" here as we have used that term above?

Common use cases for flamegraphs:

* detect unexpected usage of system calls or native libraries linked to your own software: Universal Profiling is able
  to unwind stacktraces across user-space boundary into kernel-space
* inspect the call stacks of the most CPU-intensive application, detecting hot code paths and scouting for optimization
  opportunities
* detect dead code, by searching for a library file name, a method/function file name and not hitting any results
* find "deep" call stack, usually hinting areas where there are many indirections across classes or objects

#### Functions

The functions view presents an ordered list of functions that are most seen running on CPU by Universal Profiling.
From this view, you can spot the functions that are running the most across your entire infrastructure, applying filters
to drill down into individual components.

![functions view](./img/functions-default-view.png)

### Filtering

In every of the views mentioned above, the search bar accepts a filter in the Kibana Query
Language ([KQL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/kuery-query.html)).

Most notably, you may want to filter on:

> - `service.name`: the corresponding value of `project-id` hot-agent flag, logical group of host-agents deployed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `service.name`: the corresponding value of `project-id` host-agent flag, logical group of host-agents deployed
```

- `process.thread.name`: the process command, e.g. `python`, or `java`
- `orchestrator.resource.name`: the name of the group of the containerized deployment as set by the orchestrator
- `container.name`: the name of the single container instance, as set by the container engine
- `host.name`: the single machine's hostname (useful for debugging issues of a single Virtual Machine)

### Resource constraints

One of the key goals of Universal Profiling is to have net positive cost benefit for users: the cost of profiling and
observing applications should not be higher than the savings produced by the optimizations.

> In this spirit, both the agent and storage are engineered to be as efficient as possible in terms of resources
> usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this spirit, both the host-agent and storage are engineered to use as little resources as possible.
```

#### Elasticsearch storage

Universal Profiling storage budget is predictable on a per-profiled-core basis: the data we generate at the fixed

> sampling frequency of 20 Hz, will be stored in Elasticsearch at the rate of 20 mega-bytes per core-day.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sampling frequency of 20 Hz, will be stored in Elasticsearch at the rate of 20 MB per core per day.
```

every time over the total of samples in the group.

**Do not confuse the displayed percentage with percentage of CPU usage**: Universal Profiler is not meant to show
absolute monitoring data, rather it allows to compare which software running in your infrastructure is the most
expensive.

The smaller graphs are ordered in decreasing order, from top to bottom, left to right.

In the "Traces" tab, clicking on "Show more" in each of the smaller graphs will show the full
stacktrace.

![stacktraces show more](./img/stacktraces-detailed-view.png)

Some possible use cases for the stacktraces view:

* discover which container, deployed across a multitude of machines, is the heaviest CPU hitter
* discover how much relative overhead comes from third-party software running on your machines
* detect unexpected CPU spikes across threads, and drill down into a smaller time range to investigate further with a
  flamegraph

#### Flamegraphs

A flamegraph is a visualization technique that groups hierarchical data (stacktraces) into rectangles stacked onto
or next to each other. The size of each rectangle represents the relative weight of a child compared to the parent.

> Flamegraphs provide immediate feedback on what parts of the software should be searched first for optimization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flamegraphs provide immediate feedback on which parts of the software should be searched first for optimization
```

opportunities, highlighting the hottest code paths across your entire infrastructure.

![flamegraph view](./img/flamegraph-default-view.png)

You can navigate a flamegraph on two axes:

* Horizontally: every process that is sampled will have at least a rectangle under the `root`
  frame. In Universal Profiling flamegraphs you will likely discover the existence of processes you don't control, but
  that are eating a significant portion of your CPU resources.
* Vertically: traversing a process' call stack will allow to identify which parts of the process are executing most
  frequently. This allows pinpointing functions or methods that _should_ be negligible, and are instead found to be a
  big portion of your call sites.

Drag the graph up, down, right or left to move the visible area.

You can zoom in and out of a subset of stacktraces, by clicking on individual frames or scrolling up in the colored
view.

The summary square in the bottom-left corner of the graph lets you shift the visible area of the graph.

> Note how the position of summary square is adjusted when you drag flamegraph, and vice-versa: moving the summary square

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note how the position of the summary square is adjusted when you drag the flamegraph, and vice-versa: moving the summary square
```

will reflect the visible area in the bigger panel.

> Enabling the "Show information window" on the right will display a list of entries in a panel on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling "Show information window" on the right will display a list of entries in a panel on the right.
```

Clicking on each rectangle in the flamegraph will highlight the frame's detail in the right panel.

![flamegraph frame details](./img/flamegraph-detailed-view.png)

Below the graph area, a search bar allows to highlight specific text in the flamegraph; here you may search binaries,
function or file names and move over the occurrences.

Common use cases for flamegraphs:

* detect unexpected usage of system calls or native libraries linked to your own software: Universal Profiling is able
  to unwind stacktraces across user-space boundary into kernel-space
* inspect the call stacks of the most CPU-intensive application, detecting hot code paths and scouting for optimization
  opportunities

> * detect dead code, by searching for a library file name, a method/function file name and not hitting any results

Reviewer: Maybe remove this completely, as not seeing a method/function in the flamegraph doesn't mean it's dead code (it could be that it doesn't get sampled enough to show up).

> * find "deep" call stack, usually hinting areas where there are many indirections across classes or objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* find "deep" call stack, usually a hint that there are many indirections across classes or objects
```

#### Functions

> The functions view presents an ordered list of functions that are most seen running on CPU by Universal Profiling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functions view presents an ordered list of functions that are sampled the most by Universal Profiling.
```

From this view, you can spot the functions that are running the most across your entire infrastructure, applying filters
to drill down into individual components.

![functions view](./img/functions-default-view.png)

### Filtering

> In every of the views mentioned above, the search bar accepts a filter in the Kibana Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In every view mentioned above, the search bar accepts a filter in the Kibana Query
```

Language ([KQL](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/kuery-query.html)).

Most notably, you may want to filter on:

> - `service.name`: the corresponding value of `project-id` host-agent flag, logical group of host-agents deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `service.name`: the corresponding value of `project-id` host-agent flag, logical group of deployed host-agents
```

- `container.name`: the name of the single container instance, as set by the container engine
- `host.name` or `host.ipstring`: the machine's hostname or IP address (useful for debugging issues on a single Virtual
  Machine)

### Differential views

The flamegraphs and functions views can be turned into differential views, comparing data from two distinct time ranges
or across multiple dimensions.

When switching to "Differential flamegraph" or "Differential TopN functions" from the tabs at the top, notice that you
now see two separate search bars and datetime pickers.
The left-most filters represent the data you want to use as baseline for comparison, while the right-most filters
represents the data that will be compared against the baseline.

Hitting refresh on each of the data filters will trigger a frequency comparison, that will highlight how the CPU usage
has changed.

In differential functions, note how the right-most column of functions has green or orange score calculator: they
represent the relative difference of position as the heaviest CPU hitting functions.

![differential view](./img/functions-diff-view.png)

> In differentials flamegraphs, the difference with the baseline is highlighted in form of color and hue: a more vivid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In differentials flamegraphs, the difference with the baseline is highlighted with color and hue: a more vivid
```
